So in terms of the next problem we wanna
solve is that a lot of times when it comes
to enterprise grade applications, we have
this issue where we need to dynamically
switch the component that
is based on the data.
So an example of this might be if you're
looping through a feed of items, if it's
like a news company, for example, some of
them are gonna be actual articles, right?
There are a news article previews.
But on the other hand, sometimes it
needs to actually be, let's say, like
an advertisement, or instead of a blog,
it might just be like an image gallery.
And so you can imagine that if
the back-end is providing you a list of
this basically type of content,
you need to be able to swap
out which component does what.
It's not as simple as looping through
a single like news feed item, but
then takes care of it.
And so in those cases, there's actually
a native component to view, like you
don't need to import it or anything, which
is the component, appropriately called.
Because what it does is it has a special
attribute, which is the is property and
so when you v-bind it to is,
it then takes basically a dynamic import
of a component and will then swap it out.
So we take a look at this clock example,
right?
We have a digital clock, and
we have an analog clock.
But we wanna actually like basically swap
it out based on the user preference.
And so this is a simplified example, but
important just to understand
the concept here of component swapping.
So you can see here that clock type
actually is a computed property that based
on whether the selected clock is analog or
not, will then go ahead and
import the appropriate component name.
So in this case, it would be analog.
And then it goes ahead and swap that out.
And so the reason this is really powerful
is because basically going forward,
you can programmatically like
switch out what you need.
And it only imports whatever component
is being actually like used inside
of this component block.
And so it's super powerful.
It can accept props,
asynchronous components,
it can change into different components.
And actually, if you think about it,
this is actually the very basis
of how router-view is built.
Because what it's doing if
you think about it, right,
we talked a little bit
earlier about views,
and the fact that there's still at the end
of the day still single file components,
router-view is just switching those views,
right, based on the URL.
So the slash about,
give me the about dot view page.
And that's really the core
fundamentals behind router-view.
Granted it comes with a lot of other
ergonomics, which makes it useful to have.
So before you go running off building
your own view router, just consider that
a lot of work has gone into making
like route handling a lot easier.
But in terms of the cons
though of the component,
which is important to understand
with any strategy that you have,
is that this now means that you have to be
very careful with how you handle props.
Because you can imagine, especially
on something like a news feed item,
the props that a news article would
need might be very, very different and
probably different than an ad requirement,
for example.
And these components would
have different sets of props.
And so if you remember earlier when
we covered inside our HTML section,
this is where the v-bind
shorthand is super, super like.
This is like where it absolutely shines.
Because now,
if you were to try to be declarative on
a component like on this
dynamic component piece,
you'd have a crazy list of props
that you're trying to manage.
Like if it's digital, do this,
if it's analog, do this.
If it's digital, do this.
And that would just be unwieldly.
On the other hand, as we can see here,
by v-binding the clock top inside
of clock type, you can basically
pro automatically change what props
get actually bound to the element.
So this is definitely like one of the most
perfect examples for that technique.